Annexure I - Format of BRSR Core
Sr. Cross – reference
Attribute Parameter Measurement Data & Assurance Approach
No. to the BRSR
1. Absolute Fossil Fuel (Coal, Natural Principle 6,
Gas, Diesel, FO etc.) Consumption Question 7 of
(Mn MT / KT / MT / MM BTU etc.) Essential Indicators
2. Emission Factor (GHG in CO e / Unit
2
of Measure) - IPCC or Actual Testing
GHG (CO e) Emission in from Accredited Test Lab
2
Mn MT / KT / MT 3. Quantity of Carbon Capture (Mn MT /
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up
Green-house gas Direct emissions from KT / MT)
of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O,
(GHG) footprint organization’s owned- or 4. GHG emissions in CO2 equivalent by
HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
controlled sources process (Non-Fuel Source) (Mn MT /
Greenhouse gas KT / MT / MM BTU)
emissions may be 5. Fugitive emissions
measured in 6. Total Scope 1 GHG Emissions: Point
1 accordance with 2 x Point 1 - Point 3 + Point 4 + Point
the Greenhouse 5
Gas Protocol: A
Corporate 1. Total Consumption of Purchased Principle 6,
Accounting and Energy (MW), Steam (MT), Question 7 of
Reporting Refrigeration (MMBTU) Essential Indicators
GHG (CO e) Emission in
Standard 2
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of Mn MT / KT / MT
2. GHG (CO e) Emission Factor across
the GHG (CO e) into CO2, CH4, Indirect emissions from 2
2 all purchased energy sources - IPCC
N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if the generation of energy
or actual from the supplier (audited
available) that is purchased from a
certificates)
utility provider
3. Total Scope 2 GHG Emissions: Total
Consumption x Emission Factor
Page 1 of 8
Sr. Cross – reference
Attribute Parameter Measurement Data & Assurance Approach
No. to the BRSR
Total Scope 1 and Scope 1.Total Emission (Scope 1 & 2)
Principle 6,
2 emissions (MT) / Total 2. Total Revenue from Operations - From
Question 7 of
GHG Emission Intensity Revenue from Operations Audited P&L Statement
Essential Indicators
(Scope 1 +2) adjusted for PPP 3. PPP (USD / INR)
1. Total Emission (Scope 1 & 2) as above
Total Scope 1 and Scope
2. Company & Sector Specific (i.e., No. of Principle 6,
2 emissions (MT) / Total
Vehicles Produced, MT of Material Question 7 of
Output of Product or
Produced, Data in Mn TB, No. of Seats / Essential Indicators
Services
Travel Class, Room-nights etc.)
Water consumed is water that it is no
longer available for use by the ecosystem
Principle 6,
or local community, such as water that
Question 3 of
has been withdrawn and incorporated
Essential Indicators
into products or has evaporated or is
polluted to the point of being unusable by
other users, and is therefore not released
back to surface water, groundwater,
seawater, or a third party. It also includes
water that has been stored during the
reporting period for use or discharge in a
Water footprint Total water consumption
2 Mn Lt or KL subsequent reporting period.
If the entity cannot directly measure its
water consumption, it may calculate this
using the following:
1. Input water flow meter logs (Calibrated
Meters)
2. Output water flow meter logs
(Calibrated Meters)
3. Water consumption = Input Water -
Output Water
Page 2 of 8
Sr. Cross – reference
Attribute Parameter Measurement Data & Assurance Approach
No. to the BRSR
Principle 6,
1. Total water consumed
Question 3 of
Mn Lt or KL / Rupee 2. Total Revenue from Operations (from
Essential Indicators
adjusted for PPP audited P&L)
3. PPP (USD / INR)
Water consumption intensity Principle 6,
1. Consumption as above
Question 3 of
2. Company & Sector Specific (i.e., No.
Mn Lt or KL / Product or Essential Indicators
of Vehicles Produced, MT of Material
Service
Produced, Data in Mn TB, No. of Seats /
Travel Class etc)
1. Untreated Water Principle 6,
2. Primary Treatment (Removal of Question 4 of
material that floats or settle out i.e Essential Indicators
Filtration, Screening, Sedimentation
etc.)
Water Discharge by destination and
Mn Lt or KL 3. Secondary Treatment (Removal of
levels of Treatment
Dissolved organic Matter i.e.
Oxidation, Digestion etc.)
4. Tertiary Treatment (Disinfecting Water
i.e. removal of pathogens,
Phosphorous, Nitrogen etc.)
Total energy consumption = non- Principle 6,
Total energy consumed In Joules or multiples renewable fuel consumed + renewable Question 1 of
fuel consumed + purchased electricity, Essential Indicators
heating, cooling, steam + self-generated
electricity, heating, cooling, steam
(If the entity generates electricity from a
Energy footprint
non-renewable or renewable fuel source
3
and then consumes the generated
electricity, the energy consumption shall
be counted only once)
% of energy consumed from In % terms Energy consumed through renewable
renewable sources sources / total energy consumed
Page 3 of 8
Sr. Cross – reference
Attribute Parameter Measurement Data & Assurance Approach
No. to the BRSR
1. Total energy consumed Principle 6,
2. Total Revenue from Operations (from Question 1 of
Joules or multiples /
audited P&L) Essential Indicators
Rupee adjusted for PPP
3. PPP (USD / INR)
Energy intensity 1.Consumption as above Principle 6,
2. Company & Sector Specific (i.e., No. of Question 1 of
Joules or multiples / Vehicles Produced, MT of Material Essential Indicators
Product or Service Produced, Data in Mn TB, No. of Seats /
Travel Class etc)
Absolute weight of the packaging material Principle 6,
(Bags, Bottles, Pallets etc.) discarded as Question 9 of
Plastic waste (A) Kg / MT defined under the plastic waste Essential Indicators
management rules 2016 and
amendments thereof
Discarded Computers, televisions, cell Principle 6,
phones, VCRs, stereos, DVD players, Question 9 of
E-waste (B) Kg / MT copiers, and fax machines etc. as listed Essential Indicators
under e-waste management rules 2016
and amendments thereof
Solids and liquid waste including its Principle 6,
Embracing container and any intermediate product, Question 9 of
circularity - details which is generated during the diagnosis, Essential Indicators
4 related to waste treatment or immunization of human
Bio-medical waste (C) Kg / MT
management by beings or animals or research activities
the entity as listed under Bio-medical waste
management rules 2016 and
amendments thereof
Construction waste as per C&D waste Principle 6,
management Rules 2016 and Question 9 of
Construction and demolition waste
Kg / MT amendments thereof like concrete, Essential Indicators
(D)
plaster, metal rods / wires, wood, plastics
etc.
Discarded batteries i.e., Li-ion, Alkaline, Principle 6,
Lead Acid etc used in vehicles, Question 9 of
Battery waste (E) Kg / MT
computers & laptops, mobiles other Essential Indicators
electronics, UPS, Power Back up etc. as
Page 4 of 8
Sr. Cross – reference
Attribute Parameter Measurement Data & Assurance Approach
No. to the BRSR
per Battery Waste management Rules
2016 and amendments thereof
Discarded material such as paper, plastic, Principle 6,
clothes, equipment, machine parts etc Question 9 of
having exposure to radiation across Essential Indicators
Radioactive waste (F) Kg / MT
Nuclear Power Plants, Hospitals,
Research Laboratories, Industrial
Applications etc.)
Principle 6,
Other Hazardous waste. Please As per hazardous waste management
Kg / MT Question 9 of
specify, if any. (G) rules of CPCB
Essential Indicators
Other Non-hazardous waste Principle 6,
generated (H). Please specify, if any. Waste not identified as Hazardous as Question 9 of
Kg / MT
(Break-up by composition i.e., by per CPCB Essential Indicators
materials relevant to the sector)
Principle 6,
Total waste generated ((A+B + C +
Kg / MT self-explanatory Question 9 of
D + E + F + G + H)
Essential Indicators
1. Total waste generated Principle 6,
Kg or MT / Rupee 2. Total Revenue from Operations (from Question 9 of
adjusted for PPP audited P&L) Essential Indicators
3. PPP (USD / INR)
Waste intensity 1. Total waste generated Principle 6,
2. Company & Sector Specific (i.e., No. Question 9 of
Kg or MT / Unit of
of Vehicles Produced, MT of Material Essential Indicators
Product or Service
Produced, Data in Mn TB, No. of Seats /
Travel Class etc)
Principle 6,
Kg or MT Absolute quantity
Question 9 of
Each category of waste generated, Kg of Waste Recycled Recovered /Total Essential Indicators
total waste recovered through Waste generated
recycling, re-using or other recovery
Intensity
operations Disclosure may be provided if certificates
from vendors have been relied upon for
assurance of KPIs on waste management
Page 5 of 8
Sr. Cross – reference
Attribute Parameter Measurement Data & Assurance Approach
No. to the BRSR
Kg or MT 1. Amount of material in MT disposed Principle 6,
through Incineration Question 9 of
For each category of waste
2. Amount of Material to Landfill Essential Indicators
generated, total waste disposed by
3. Any other method
nature of disposal method
Kg of Waste Recycled Recovered /Total
Intensity Waste generated
To check sources including – Principle 3,
 Insurance Policies & Premium Paid Question 1(c) of
Details Essential Indicators
Spending on measures towards well-  Infant Care Policy
In % terms
being of employees and workers –  Amount billed/invoices towards
cost incurred as a % of total revenue providing such facilities
of the company (The following measures may be included
– health insurance, accident insurance,
maternity benefits, paternity benefits, day
Enhancing
care facilities, health & safety measures
Employee
including access to mental health)
5 Wellbeing and
Principle 3,
Safety Number of Permanent
To check on the basis of claims Question 11 of
Disabilities
Essential Indicators
1. Total number of lost time injuries Principle 3,
Details of safety related incidents for Lost Time Injury
2. Total No. of working hours Question 11 of
employees and workers (including Frequency Rate (LTIFR)
3. LTIFR = (Total number of lost time Essential Indicators
contract-workforce e.g. workers in (per one million-person
injuries *10,00,000) / Total No. of
the company's construction sites) hours worked)
working hours
Principle 3,
To check on the basis of claims as
No. of fatalities Question 11 of
reported to the Factory Inspector
Essential Indicators
Principle 5,
Gross wages paid to females as % of
In % terms Employee Master / Register Question 3(b) of
wages paid
Essential Indicators
Enabling Gender  Total Complaints on Principle 5,
6 Diversity in Sexual Harassment Question 7 of
Business (POSH) reported Essential Indicators
Complaints on POSH
 Complaints on POSH
as a % of female
employees / workers
Page 6 of 8
Sr. Cross – reference
Attribute Parameter Measurement Data & Assurance Approach
No. to the BRSR
 Complaints on POSH
upheld
Principle 8,
Question 4 of
Input material sourced from following Essential Indicators
self-explanatory
sources as % of total purchases – In % terms – As % of total
‘Input material’ - includes all types of
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small purchases by value
procurement such as raw material,
producers and from within India
spares, services, capex procurement
items etc.
Enabling Inclusive
7
Development
Place of employment of employees Principle 8,
Job creation in smaller towns –
/workers (Place to be categorised based Question 5 of
Wages paid to persons employed in In % terms – As % of total
on with RBI classification system on rural Essential Indicators
smaller towns (permanent or non- wage cost
/ semi-urban / urban / metropolitan)
permanent /on contract) as % of total
wage cost
Principle 9,
Question 7 of
Essential Indicators
Instances involving loss / breach of
data of customers as a percentage of
Fairness in In % terms
total data breaches or cyber security
Engaging with
8 events
Customers and
Suppliers
(Accounts payable *365) / Principle 1,
Number of days of accounts payable Cost of goods/services Question 8 of
To check from financial statements
procured Essential Indicators
 Purchases from Principle 1,
Concentration of purchases & sales
trading houses as % 1. RPT audited by Financial Auditors Question 9 of
done with trading houses, dealers,
of total purchases (Refer Financial Audit Report) Essential Indicators
Open-ness of and related parties
9  Number of trading 2. Financial statements / invoices
business Loans and advances & investments
houses where
with related parties
purchases are made
from
Page 7 of 8
Sr. Cross – reference
Attribute Parameter Measurement Data & Assurance Approach
No. to the BRSR
 Purchases from top
10 trading houses as
% of total purchases
from trading houses
 Sales to dealers /
distributors as % of
total sales
 Number of dealers /
distributors to whom
sales are made
 Sales to top 10
dealers / distributors
as % of total sales to
dealers / distributors
Share of RPTs (as
respective %age) in -
 Purchases
 Sales
 Loans & advances
 Investments
Page 8 of 8
